docs/Dev_notes.md, before:

# Developer Notes

## How to build the binary for python module?

First compile the grammar
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter test
```
To use the grammar module still in developement from within the py-usfm-grammar module
```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
source ENV-dev/bin/actiavte
pip install ../tree-sitter-usfm3
```

To make the changes reflect automatically `pip install -e ../tree-sitter-usfm3`.

## How to change version number in files?

In python module,
```bash
cd usfm-grammar
source py-usfm-parser/ENV-dev/bin/activate
bumpversion --new-version 3.0.0-alpha.28 num
```

The github action is configured to automatically build and publish to PyPI and NPM upon a github code release. Make sure to use same version number in the python module bump command, and github release.

## Run tests
### To check Syntax trees in Grammar module
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter test
```

Ensure the other modules have this newer grammar.

Python:
```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
pip install ../tree-sitter-usfm3/
```

Node:
```bash
cd node-usfm-parser
npm install ../tree-sitter-usfm3/ --no-save
```

Web:
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
tree-sitter build --wasm
cp tree-sitter-usfm3.wasm ../web-usfm-parser/tree-sitter-usfm.wasm
```


### In python module alone

```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
python -m pytest -n auto

# to run selectively
pytest -k "not compare_usx_with_testsuite_samples and not testsuite_usx_with_rnc_grammar and not generated_usx_with_rnc_grammar and not samples-from-wild" -n auto

```

### In node module:

```bash
cd node-usfm-parser
npm run test

# to run selectively
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 --grep "Compare" --bail
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 test/basic.js
```

### In web module:

```bash
cd web-usfm-parser
npm run test

# to run selectively
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 --grep "Compare" --bail
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 test/basic.js
```


## How to build and publish JS web module for local Development

First compile the grammar and get the wasm file
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter build --wasm
cp tree-sitter-usfm3.wasm ../web-usfm-parser/tree-sitter-usfm.wasm
cd ..
```
After npm install, copy the `tree-sitter.js` file from `node_modules/web-tree-sitter` to the `js-usfm-parser/src/web-tree-sitter` folder to include it in the bundle. Also copy the `tree-sitter.wasm` file to `js-usfm-parser/` to be included in the npm packaging.

```bash
cd web-usfm-parser/
npm install .
cp node_modules/web-tree-sitter/tree-sitter.js src/web-tree-sitter/
cp node_modules/web-tree-sitter/tree-sitter.wasm ./

```

### To publish the node and web modules

Build the code base generating both cjs and esm versions of the same code base. This used parcel and its configs are in package.json(main, module, source, etc). These steps can be followed in both the node module directory and web module directory.

```bash
rm -fr ./dist
npm run build
```

Use  a local publishing registry for local development and testing

```bash
npm install -g verdaccio # need not do again if done once
verdaccio # runs a server at localhost:4873
touch .npmrc
echo "registry=http://localhost:4873 # OR http://0.0.0.0:4873" > .npmrc
rm -r .parcel-cache
npm run build
npm publish .
```

Commit message:

Depdendency upgrades (#340)
* Upgrade dependencies in grammar module

* Upgrade dependencies in node module. Fix issue in grammar module

* Update dev docs on how to set up grammar module

* Update dependencies in web module and change code accordingly

* Test and fix issues in the web module

* Update gitignore

* Fix linting issues in python module

* Fix grammar building in gitactions: trial 1

* Upgrade dependencies in python

* Make python code changes for newer version

* fix linting issues

docs/Dev_notes.md, after:

# Developer Notes

## Setting up the grammar module
(One time steps)
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
npm install tree-sitter-cli
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter init
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter test
```

## How to build the binary for python module?

First compile the grammar
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter test
```
To use the grammar module still in developement from within the py-usfm-grammar module
```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
source ENV-dev/bin/actiavte
pip install ../tree-sitter-usfm3
```

To make the changes reflect automatically `pip install -e ../tree-sitter-usfm3`.

## How to change version number in files?

In python module,
```bash
cd usfm-grammar
source py-usfm-parser/ENV-dev/bin/activate
bumpversion --new-version 3.0.0-alpha.28 num
```

The github action is configured to automatically build and publish to PyPI and NPM upon a github code release. Make sure to use same version number in the python module bump command, and github release.

## Run tests
### To check Syntax trees in Grammar module
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter test
```

Ensure the other modules have this newer grammar.

Python:
```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
pip install ../tree-sitter-usfm3/
```

Node:
```bash
cd node-usfm-parser
npm install ../tree-sitter-usfm3/ --no-save
```

Web:
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
tree-sitter build --wasm
cp tree-sitter-usfm3.wasm ../web-usfm-parser/tree-sitter-usfm.wasm
```


### In python module alone

```bash
cd py-usfm-parser
python -m pytest -n auto

# to run selectively
pytest -k "not compare_usx_with_testsuite_samples and not testsuite_usx_with_rnc_grammar and not generated_usx_with_rnc_grammar and not samples-from-wild" -n auto

```

### In node module:

```bash
cd node-usfm-parser
npm run test

# to run selectively
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 --grep "Compare" --bail
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 test/basic.js
```

### In web module:

```bash
cd web-usfm-parser
npm run test

# to run selectively
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 --grep "Compare" --bail
node_modules/mocha/bin/mocha.js --timeout 40000 test/basic.js
```


## How to build and publish JS web module for local Development

First compile the grammar and get the wasm file
```bash
cd tree-sitter-usfm3
export PATH=$PATH:./node_modules/.bin
tree-sitter generate
tree-sitter build --wasm
cp tree-sitter-usfm3.wasm ../web-usfm-parser/tree-sitter-usfm.wasm
cd ..
```
After npm install, copy the `tree-sitter.js` file from `node_modules/web-tree-sitter` to the `web-usfm-parser/src/web-tree-sitter` folder to include it in the bundle. Also copy the `tree-sitter.wasm` file to `web-usfm-parser/` to be included in the npm packaging.

```bash
cd web-usfm-parser/
npm install .
cp node_modules/web-tree-sitter/tree-sitter.js src/web-tree-sitter/
cp node_modules/web-tree-sitter/tree-sitter.wasm ./

```

### To publish the node and web modules

Build the code base generating both cjs and esm versions of the same code base. This used parcel and its configs are in package.json(main, module, source, etc). These steps can be followed in both the node module directory and web module directory.

```bash
rm -fr ./dist
npm run build
```

Use  a local publishing registry for local development and testing

```bash
npm install -g verdaccio # need not do again if done once
verdaccio # runs a server at localhost:4873
touch .npmrc
echo "registry=http://localhost:4873 # OR http://0.0.0.0:4873" > .npmrc
rm -r .parcel-cache
npm run build
npm publish .
```
